---
layout: post
title: "Designing TIC TAC TOE"
date: 2016-06-29
excerpt: "Building a basic app like TIC TAC TOE"
tags: [TIC TAC TOE, params]
feature: http://i.imgur.com/Ds6S7lJ.png
comments: false
---

The rules of TIC TAC TOE are simple. Two players take turns placing x's and o's respectively in a 3 X 3 grid until one player gets three in a row, or there are no more moves remaining. Most of us have been playing the game since we were five years old. Playing the game takes most less than a minute.


Designing and writing the code for the game takes considerable more time and effort. As with any project, it is imperative to start with a solid plan. For this project, the first issue is keeping track of whose turn it is to play. The plan is to use query string parameters to toggle between Player 1 and Player 2.

Another challenge is to keep track of the remaining moves. Every game starts with nine possible moves and decreases by one after each player completes a turn. The plan is to use array(0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8) and when a player makes a choice that number is removed from the array. A player will not be able to chose a element to contained in the array.

The game board will need to update after a player has placed an x or an o. I have not totally figured out how to accomplish this as of this writing.

Each player's moves will need to be pushed into an array. This will will be used after each turn to determine if there is a winner. I will check to see if the intersection of a player's array and a winning array is equal to the winning array. There are eight winning arrays.

